# Immigration and Polarization

How does polarization in home country affect the social interactions between immigrants in the host country? The conventional wisdom in the immigration literature suggests that the networks with co-nationals in the country of destination provides a “safe haven” for newcomers and facilitates their search for jobs, accommodation, and social connections. However, there is a gap in the literature: the impact of polarization in home country on these everyday interactions between immigrants abroad is understudied. 
  
  To address this gap, first, following the recent waves of emigration from Turkey, we conducted two online survey experiments. Turkey as a traditionally immigrant-sending country presents an intriguing case with high level of polarization. In the first survey experiment, Turkish immigrant respondents were presented with the Facebook profile of a hypothetical newcomer contacting them for assistance, randomizing the political ideology signaled through their Facebook likes of newspapers, TV shows, and celebrities among others. We measure the extent of respondents’ willingness to engage with this newcomer, depending on their ideology. In the second design, respondents were presented with a hypothetical scenario about protests organized by their co-nationals in the host country, randomizing their ideology, followed by a battery of questions to measure respondents’ political tolerance towards them. Our findings overall suggest that polarization travels abroad and it can shape the social interactions within the immigrant communities. Anti-government immigrants are less likely to assist pro-government newcomers with immigration and less likely to tolerate their political activity in the host country than pro-government immigrants.
